# CPSC 490: Senior Project
## Abstract
This CPSC 490 Senior Project uses HTML, CSS, Jinja, JavaScript, d3.js, Python, and Flask in building a web application to visualize climate change. More specifically, there are 5 visualizations – 2 line graphs, a stacked bar chart, and a choropleth map – created with the purpose of visualizing 1) carbon dioxide emissions over time by state, 2) severe weather events over time, 3) global rising sea level, 4) global rising temperature, and 5) number of environmental bills per state. This project is inspired by digital humanities in blending powerful visualization technologies with real world issues to learn with and educate others. I heavily employ different data and information visualization principles, such as intentional use of color and creating interactivity for users through tooltips, highlighting, and creation of legends. From the visualizations developed through this senior project, it becomes increasingly clear the catastrophe that we are heading towards. The goal of this project is to empower people to explore climate change through different aspects. The web application serves as a cohesive narrative of how climate change impacts us, our role in worsening the climate crisis, and legislative efforts that inspire hope in our fight to protect our planet. This project intends to combine different datasets to illuminate varying climate change findings resulting from siloed datasets across United States government climate agencies. After encountering many challenges with regards to finding and using data for this senior project’s visualizations, I call on government agencies to commit themselves to data accessibility through investment of time, energy, and resources in creating data APIs.